doc: extend README explaining how version bumping should be handled (#78)
zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls: README.md

This should be used sparingly and for good reasons, as we do not want to deviate from upstream. This is not meant as a quick way to get changes into this repository by bypassing upstream and such commits will be rejected.

`noup` commits are like regular commits in the main Zephyr repository with the exception that their commit title is prepended with `[zep noup]`.

Version bumping
---------------

This section talks about Mbed TLS, but the same guidelines apply to the other

> forks of the TF-M and Mbed TLS projects.

Reviewer: I particularly not a fan of creating a policy for another repository in here. I know most people working on TF-M are also working on MBED TLS but they are different projects. For me either it would be done in Zephyr's doc or in both projects. I think we should copy it there as well.

Author: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls/pull/78#discussion_r2459490602
https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls/pull/78#discussion_r2472205784

I think @tomi-font would like to use this document as guide for few other modules (see also https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/tf-m-tests/pull/16/files). However since this guideline might not be super generic, he proposed to keep it confined to Mbed TLS and TF-M and not to go in Zephyr documentation.

Reviewer 2: The point was exactly to have a single source of truth, and have the other relevant repos point to it. Maintaining copies of it is just extra duplication work and pretty much guaranteed to fall out of sync so I'm really not in favor of that.

And as @valeriosetti said IMO this is very specific to those repos and only affects people contributing to them so here just seems like the natural place for that.

Let's say that a new Mbed TLS release is announced and that its version is `3.6.5`.
On the Zephyr fork:
1. Create a new branch named `zephyr_<project_name>_v<upstream_release_version>`
   which is located exactly at the upstream release tag. For example,
   `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.5`.
2. Make a PR by cherry-picking all the Zephyr extra patches that are still needed
   for the new branch.
   - Discard all the `[zep fromtree]` and `[zep fromlist]` commits that are already
      included in the release. As for `[zep noup]` they might no more be valid
      or might require an update so they should be checked individually.
   - The cherry-picking order should be: `[zep fromtree]` first, then
       `[zep fromlist]` and finally `[zep noup]`.
   - Cherry-pick commits without `-x` nor `-s` so as not to inflate the commit
     message over time, unless you had to modify the commit and it's not just a

>      clean cherry-pick.

Reviewer: Wouldn't it possibly inflate only `[zep noup]` ? The others will come fresh from the list / tree and wouldn't make sense whoever is cherry picking them sign off ?

Author: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls/pull/78#discussion_r2472255779
https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls/pull/78#discussion_r2477236403

Reviewer 2: I proposed that because we have experience with this in NCS and it's just not nice and has no added value when you have a noup with 10 sign-offs and `cherry picked from [...]` lines. It gets messy and you don't even know anymore who contributed or modified the patch.

Author: This was the thing that raised most of the concerns during the Security Committee meeting of November 10th. I agree with what @tomi-font suggested (which is what's currently in the PR), but in particular @d3zd3z mentioned that there seems to be some rule that requires `-s` to be always added.

In order to support @tomi-font proposal let's take a couple of commits from the v3.6.5 bumping PR.

Start from a `noup` one so for example [this](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls/pull/79/commits/a84ded06233dbd4d690fa18a3aa3b4ddbfa724e7) commit. The `Signed-off-by` is still present of course and it belong to the person that did that `noup` initially. The `-x` wouldn't bring any useful info in this case because it would just mention the first time where this commit was introduced, but is it really relevant since it still apply? IMO no and therefore it wasn't added.

Now let's take a `fromtree` [one](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls/pull/79/commits/77ad310663b3dad23e66e141ab1d06df3d9529d2). In this case the `Signed-off-by` again point to the developer who worked on this change upstream. In this case `-x` is valuable of course because it points to the upstream commit, so it's kept.

This should be used sparingly and for good reasons, as we do not want to deviate from upstream. This is not meant as a quick way to get changes into this repository by bypassing upstream and such commits will be rejected.

`noup` commits are like regular commits in the main Zephyr repository with the exception that their commit title is prepended with `[zep noup]`.

Version bumping
---------------

This section talks about Mbed TLS, but the same guidelines apply to the other
forks of the TF-M and Mbed TLS projects.

Let's say that a new Mbed TLS release is announced and that its release tag

> is for example `v3.6.5`.

Reviewer 2: No explicit mention of the tag as the tagging scheme differs between projects?
```suggestion
Let's say that a new Mbed TLS version is released, for example `3.6.5`.
```

Author: Well, we need to specify some reference where to set the new branch being pushed to the Zephyr fork (i.e. `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.5` in our case), right? This "reference" is mentioned on point (1) below.
It's also plausible that almost every project creates a tag at the release point.

Author: Following the discussion we had offline I updated this line to be more generic so that it only refers to the release version and not the tag name.

On the Zephyr fork:
1. Create a new branch named `zephyr_<project_name>_v<upstream_release_version>`
   which is located exactly at the upstream release tag. For example,
   `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.5`.
2. Make a PR by cherry-picking all the Zephyr extra patches that are still needed
   for the new branch.
   - Discard all the `[zep fromtree]` and `[zep fromlist]` commits that are already
      included in the release. As for `[zep noup]` they might no more be valid
      or might require an update so they should be checked individually.
   - The cherry-picking order should be: `[zep fromtree]` first, then
       `[zep fromlist]` and finally `[zep noup]`.
   - Cherry-pick commits without `-x` nor `-s` so as not to inflate the commit
     message over time, unless you had to modify the commit and it's not just a
     clean cherry-pick.

> 3. For the created PR set the base branch to the newly-created one. In our example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. When creating the PR set the base branch to the newly-created one. In our example,
```

   it would be `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.5`.
   - With this approach the PR in GitHub will only show Zephyr's extra commits
     on top of the upstream release tag, so it will be easier to review.
4. Get the PR approved and merged.

> 5. Make a PR in Zephyr repo to update the West revision of the Mbed TLS project.

Reviewer 2: Well actually the order of those two should be reverted, you definitely want to have a manifest PR (and green CI on it) before merging the update PR.

Author: Well, my plan here was to make Zephyr point to the new revision, but yes I forgot about testing so this will be another extra step

Author: On a 2nd thought I think I will simply drop this step. It's not related to version bumping of the module, but on how the module will be integrated into Zephyr, so that's a bit out of scope to me and it makes the explanation harder to follow.

> 5. Make a PR in Zephyr repo to update the West revision of the Mbed TLS project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Make a PR in the Zephyr repository to update the West revision of the Mbed TLS project.
```
\+ project or module?

> 6. Set the repo default branch to `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.5`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Set the new branch (in our example, `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.5`) as the default branch of the repository.
```

   - When this is done, the HEAD of the previous default branch (which in our
     example would be `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.4`) is tagged (in order to keep its

>      history) with the name same as the branch and the branch is removed.

Reviewer 2: Actually maybe let's keep the same tense as above?
```suggestion
   - When this is done, tag the HEAD of the previous default branch (which in our
     example would be `zephyr_mbedtls_v3.6.4`) with the name same as the branch
     (in order to keep its history) and delete the branch.
```

Author: Note: I applied the change but `delete` --> `remove` because @frkv asked for this wording.
